Travel Journal of our Journey into the Wilds
[ed: Generally, when we find treasure, I'll try to add it to the income spreadsheet.]
Current Quests
Get to the Verdant Mirror on the glacier.
Get supplies/sell stuff for the tundra.
Ask Talia or her scouts if they know anything about the area leading to the glacier. Can we find a source of food out there? Any outposts?
Deal with Vaelith in his quest to take possession of the Verdant Mirror
Warn Lysandra of the threat from the goblins who were looking for the book
Find out who put a bounty out on us (as we discovered from Brahn the Iron Snout)
Discern the motivations of the Stratus Vanguard, followers of Karas (ans: they suck)
Get more holy water
Clear Rinuth Mausoleum
Help Talia and Vaelin take back the town.
Come back to Fel-Shama to aid Jorren in finding out about the strange angle that flies at dawn to meet up with a young man at his flat for a brief moment.
Maybe travel to Stormhold to deal with Karas there too.
Enter the Crystalspire and get the Tome of Knowledge.

[TBI = to be identified]
Journal
February 25th, 2026
We investigate the room above this room:

Big Cat furs x8
2 leather bags with coin (1000gp/bag)
Ivory Cube (1ft/side), intricately carved
Silver and aquamarine necklace (125gp)
Parchment packet with dust inside of it (glows with magic)
Wooden scroll case
Clairvoyance
Stinking Cloud



We move into another hallway room:


While exploring, Andurin trips into a closet-like room and teleports away. Rüya summons Buho and sends him in to find that he went to the “infinite” hallway that we had encountered a while ago. We think he’s on his way back.

Sachan tries to open another door, but it turns out to be purely a trap and almost falls into a spiked pit, but Hrotgar and the dire wolf prevent her from falling down (she had a rope tied around her).

Finally, Ayloc casts gaseous form on himself and Sachan they enter the last double doors to see the scene of a boat and other things. A Spirit Naga reveals itself.


We decide not to deal with the naga and move onto another room
that has this weird tree-like thing in it:

The tree [Xilonen] attacks us, splitting in two in the process.

Found in the stomach of the beast:
12 pieces of jasper (worth 10gp each)
Silvery rod of copper nickel alloy
We enter a room where we finally have access to fresh air and meet a Guardian Naga.

1,833xp




February 18th, 2026
Cat room. Giant stuffed tiger. One clay golem. Stuffed cats.

500gp inside the tiger’s belly.
Clay heart inside the tiger’s head. Might fit inside the clay golem?
Cat of nine tails (whip) x2
Stone spear with metal head (on clay golem)
Sacrificial dagger (glows with magic)
Jade Statue of a cat 9lbs (200gp).
Scroll of protection from feline beasts and were creatures
Ogre statue room
Mace head of high quality (broken shaft) (glows with magic)

Fought an Xipe thing above the ogre room.

1,650xp, 47,615 total

February 11th, 2026
Goliath room. We reunite with the dire wolf.

Two divans with pale goliaths and a table in the middle with a flask on the top. Rüya investigates: Silver powder in a flask; think if we add water, it might work again. Not sure what it does.

Two additional sideboards are empty.

On the wall, Invgild cast Comprehend Languages: “Beware the new gods will bring down a fiery breath”

Meanwhile, we rest and Ingvild ids some stuff:
Bracelet of Rock Magic
+1 long sword of Plant Slaying; +2d6 to plant creatures (on Andurin)
 Two Bracelets which are Bracers of Defense (+2 AC; works with Mage Armor; needs Attunement)
Moon shaped Ring of Protection (+1 AC; needs attunement)
Panther shaped Ring of Animal Influence
If water is added to the clay plot with flowers, the powder inside will become a potion of invisibility. Water is 1/2 duration, Wine is full duration.
6” long faceless statue with pointed ears (bottle): Elixir of Health (When you drink this potion, it cures any disease afflicting you, and it removes the blinded, deafened, paralyzed, and poisoned conditions.)
Silver powder in a jar on the table in this room: Drinking will drop you into an ageless sleep for 5000 years. With two crystal goblets

The jade plaque depicts two men, wearing padding on their arms and hips, with a large ball traveling between them. The figurines are carved in the image of a sun-god in a feathered robe. There are seven jade items in all, weighing 1 pound and worth 30 gp each.

Buried beneath the skeletons is a chalice of beaten gold, inset with six amethysts, that weighs 1 pound and is worth 150 gp.

The silver coffer weighs 15 pounds and is worth 150 gp due to its fine workmanship. The copper figure is worth 50 gp and weighs 5 pounds. from this (see picture)

Also 2950XP.


February 4th, 2026
Banshees, Will-o Wisps and Fire Beetles. Three turquoise gems and a not-too-shabby dagger found in a pile of trash

1005 xp
January 28th, 2026
We return to the sarcophagus and open it after futzing with a zero-base number puzzle.

Then we explored some more and encountered some ghasts.

2700xp

Treasure. The mask has a value of 200 gp, and the pendant is worth 50 gp.
Beneath the mask are fragments of bone, as though the skull has been crushed. Within the fragments of the jaw is a spherical white onyx (15 gp).
Strands of hair still remain on the skull, gathered into black obsidian and red pipestone tubes (worth 50 gp as a bunch).
Above the mask, on the corpse’s forehead, is a diadem of dark opals and jade discs (worth 200 gp).
To either side of the mask are jade earplugs carved in several pieces to resemble budding flowers (the pair worth 30 gp).
Draped over the rib cage is a breastplate made of loops of tubular jade interspersed with bone dividers (protects like studded leather, worth 200 gp).
Scattered around the neck and through the rib cage of the corpse are one hundred fifty-six jade beads (each worth 1 gp) shaped like spheres, cylinders, tri-lobed beads, floral buds, open flowers, pumpkins, melons, and a snake’s head.
About the wrists are wide jade bead bracelets (Magic!).
On the middle finger of each hand are carved jade rings, one in the form of a man holding the moon (Magic!) and the other a panther ready to strike (Magic!).
Pressed into the fingers of each hand is a large bead, a jade cube (150 gp) in the right hand and a spherical agate (50 gp) in the left hand.
At the feet of the skeleton lie two small containers, apparently of glazed clay, one fitted with flower-shaped plugs in both ends (Magic!), the other holding a 1-inch-diameter piece of mother-of-pearl (5 gp).
Lying among the hip bones is a 6-inch-long statue of a faceless man with large pointed ears. Plugged at the bottom, it is a bottle that contains Magic!

Six golden statuettes (worth 50 gp each), a golden mask (worth 250 gp), two crystal scroll cases (worth 25 gp apiece), though water has destroyed the scrolls in them; a silver idol (worth 15 gp), which is actually a bottle holding a potion of clairvoyance; and a pair of gloves of missile snaring.

The axe had: scrolls of passwall, burning hands, and gust of wind


January 21st, 2026
We managed to do enough damage to the Nereid and her cohort to get her to surrender. She gives up some treasure and we tell her to let us pass through her room when we want.

We retraced our steps to find another large room with water and were attacked by a giant slug and some rat swarms, which we quickly dispatched..


January 14th, 2026
We travel through the east door. Pushing aside a stone block that insufficiently hid a chamber, we see glyphs on the door reading, “Here lies Tloques-Popolocas, master of the others, who is like the wind and the night!” Double doors are locked; Sachan sees the glint glass between the seam of the doors. She easily disarms it and we enter the larger room.  Pillars surround a sarcophagus and in the back, there is a battle axe embedded in the wall.

More stuff happened and we started a combat with some watery tarts.



1000xp total is 37585
January 7th, 2026
The Archmage will need to have some time decoding the book, so he gives us a lease to a university townhouse within the city.

His revelation points to the Archive of Ashes, in swamp far to the south. He teleports us there and we quickly find the entrance, but as we approach, the ground shakes from the passing of what appeared to be dinosaurs and the ground collapses beneath us.

We end up in a large room with totems on shelves and a diorama in the center. Of particular note (as noticed by Hrothgar after Ruya cast produce light), the air is thick with something that affects the flames, and probably our breathing, though nothing is immediately noticed.

We move on and battle a Roper and two cloakers in the next room.

+1800xp
December 30th, 2025
We enter the Aether Sanctum through a portal created by the Archmage. After going down some spiral stairs, Rüya and Ingvild step on a dais in the center of the room, upon which there is a crystal pillar that contains the book. Suddenly we’re attacked by two four armed constructs and two invisible stalkers, which we defeat, though Rüya did get hurt badly (picked up by a stalker and then dropped down 40 feet), as did Ayloc later on. After we defeat the monsters, we get the book and return through the portal.

“Aetherbrand Codex” is the name of the book.

+2000

December 26th, 2025
We take our new apostate-ward, Seren Virell, back to the inn to chat with him. Has a friend in Stormhold that said (via Sending) Karas follows are blocking exit from that city and something big is going down. Lots of construction material is coming into the city.

Sending Qs:
First question:
Tharos. It’s Seren. How are things in Stormhold? The Karas church is grabbing power. What are they doing there? You can reply to this message.
Answer:
People are okay, but we can’t leave. Only Karas worshipers with a Stratus Vanguard leader. They’re talking about the church of Karas ruling the kingdom.
Second Question:
This is the last Sending I can cast. Can you tell me more? What are they doing? Are they building an army? Or something else?
Second Answer:
They’re building something northeast of town. It’s big. People are sent to work on it and haven’t returned. It won’t be done until next spring.

We meet with the Archmage—who casts a Zone of Truth on us to test our alignment and ways of thinking. Satisfied, he asks us to complete a task for him. He’s found a way to access the Aether Sanctum at the center of the Crystalspire; he’ll hold open the portal so we can go in and get the Tome of Knowledge for him.

We did some shopping while we had time, as the Archmage needed to set a few things up before we enter the Spire.

December 17th, 2025
We get to Crystalspire and get rooms at a place that Dawnseer recommends.

Sacahan meets up with a dude who sends us out to a meeting where we are jumped by a succubus and incubus or other fiends and chain devils, then meets up with an apostate of Karas who will be giving us some information.

+1765 xp


December 10th, 2025
Rüya meets Jorren Pike —
Dawnstone has gone missing from the Garden of renewal of Solaris — Sachan, Ingvild, and Rüya investigate.

+500

December 3rd, 2025
Bone devil and Oni attack.

We head on to Fel-Shama, a medium-sized town.

+1500xp
November 27th, 2025
Skipped for Thanksgiving
November 19th, 2025
We finished the prolonged battle; there was a bishop who had summoned an angel and a couple of priests.

November 12th, 2025
Sachan (disguised), Ayloc (also disguised) and Rüya (as a cat) sneak into the town, looking for information on a group of people that have been held hostage and are rumored to be taken away at some point.

We attack the caravan of the people being taken.


November 5th, 2025
We got caught in a blizzard for one night.

We encounter a yeti cave, with two regular yetis and one abominable yeti. Andurin was frozen by a chill gaze and hit pretty hard, but Rüya healed him greatly, and then Ingvild did an amazing fireball that severely damaged all the beasts. We managed to fend them off quickly.

We travel for several more days; as we get closer to Thornwatch, Talia and Vaelin "Shadowstride" Thorn show up. They are injured. Apparently the followers of Karas took the town and attacked the scouts. They move us a bit away from the town, since there are now a couple of hundred followers of Karas who have taken over the town.

+1350xp


October 29, 2025
We discuss the consequences of what happened. No blame on Ayloc who did not know what would happen. Rüya, now advanced in knowledge, memorized Divination so that we can ask Rinuth what to do next.

We also are choosing to help the vanguard group who had brought the unicorn with Hrothgar.

We find the bodies of the group plus some hobgoblins and then we’re attacked by Young Remorhaz’

October 22, 2025
We finish defeating Vaelith; Ayloc, unbeknownst to most of us, throws an acorn pool, causing a massive tree to grow quickly consuming the Verdant Mirror and starting to destroy the dome/plane we were in, making us run as fast as we can to escape.

From Vaelith, we got a book, a ring, and sceptre.

We also level up. 2500 xp/23,675 total


October 15, 2025
We continue to explore the area, and find that some tunnels/routes loop around back to the center area. We find a tent with an elf in “evil looking” robes who turns out to be an elemental cultist that attacks us. We soundly defeated him, though Ayloc took severe damage and was on the edge of death.
October 8, 2025
We meet Hrothgar Ironfist, who turns out to be someone hired to bring the unicorn to us. Andurin informs us that we have a need for the unicorn as part of a ritual at the Verdant Mirror. Hrothgar joins us.

Apparently our short time in the Fey Wild translated to a few weeks in the material plane.

We enter the portal and end up in a small area surrounded by thorns.

We fight some hobgoblins who have gold necklaces of Vaelith (the captain’s is extra fancy). There was also a blink dog around, whose name we learn is “Nosy.” Rüya gives him some herbs to help with his cold.

October 1, 2025
We go to the Verdant Mirror!

We are “greeted” by a sprite who hurriedly asks us to follow her to where her friend—and a unicorn—is being attacked by ettercaps and a phase spider (it turns out there were two phase spiders). Andurin’s mount got pulled in by an ettercap to a portal on the far side of the opening.

We did lose Wildfire, Andurin’s mount, to being pulled into the portal. But we at least saved the unicorn.

+1180xp (20,650 total)
September 24, 2025
We explored the orchard where we met some protective dryads. We informed them that the owner/hag of the cottage was dead. They didn’t really seem to mind. So we let them know we were going to kill off the Chocatrices.

We killed off the three Chocatrices, which included a Chocatrice Regent. We forgot that Chocatrices can fly (despite very high rolls of Arcana by both Ingvild and Rüya), so our Fireball + Spike Growth opening assault was only partially successful.

We head back to the village with Asger (who is in gummy form) to see if we can find someone to restore him. The town council helps with Asger and arrests Edith. Fil takes in Asger.

Fil gives us  a box of pastries and 100 gp in a pouch.

The council gives us 100gp each.

We figure out that the green stuff in the Sourdough starter is actually green slime.

1150xp (19,470 total)


September 17, 2025
We went into the attic. Defeated some candy creatures. Rescued a prisoner. Need to figure out what to do with the Chocotrices and the a

+1080xp
September 10, 2025
We kill the baby construct because everything in this building is evil.

We enter the kitchen and find our nemesis Grannie Devilsnare and her sister, Auntie Nibblecheeks there. We manage to kill Devilsnare, but Nibblecheeks Plane Shifts out.

On Devilsnare, we find her Soulbag and items to be identified: [Hag eye, Wand of the Warmage +1, Pearl of Power, Ring of Jumping]. Also 100 fake rubies, but which are worth 1gp each. We spend time prying them off the kitchen appliances.

A bag of sparkly powder, TBI

We manage to find Nibblecheeks using the Hag Eye. Ayloc casts See Invisibility and sneakily blasts her to death.

Andurin and Ingvild turn back from being gingerbread people to normal people.

We find a Broom of Flying

We find a Scroll of Greater Restoration.

We still have the downstairs to explore. We found a book that highlighted a story about Edith striking a deal with the Hags, leaving her brother under the control of the

1720xp

September 3, 2025
We enter the cottage; we try to be sneaky about it, but that turns out to not be necessary, so we just barge in. We encounter some bugbears, but handily take them out. We eventually meet up with a 7ft one-eyed baby with a spiked lollipop.

Earned 1320xp for a total of 15520.



August 27, 2025
We set the mausoleum up to be more resistant to thieves, then, after much discussion, we decided to go to the Fey Wild. We follow a purple cobble path to the town of Thistledown, a mixed race, friendly place.

Confectionary Conflagration
We smell burnt sugar and hear the yell of “Help!” We, along with the townsfolk go to investigate, finding the confectionary hut on fire.

We rescue:Edith Applegate. She had just been opening the store when a fire spontaneously happened. She’s new in town, and tells us that the sole purveyor of candy, Fill Flourforge.

Andurin and Ingvild found a half eaten half cinnamon roll behind the structure.

A drunk human lady tells us she saw a golden lizard fly away from the building. We find small, clawed foot prints near where the cinnamon roll, lizard-like.

Invgild also asks about how to deal with the Hag, and gets some info.

We go to Fill’s bakery, which is shaped like bread.
​​

We discover Fill used to be a bandit; he suspects an ex-partner may have been involved. He tells us a story about how in the old days he managed to abscond with a golden dragon egg… that happened to hatch recently: Briochebane. He uses her fire to do his baking.

Briochebane has gone missing, so Fill asks us to find her! He’ll help replace Edith’s candy shop.

We follow the direction that the lady said the lizard flew away. We find a Candy Cottage.


Sachan and Rüya investigate the barn on the side and find chocolate statues… being pecked on by chocotrices. We return to the group and discuss.







August 20, 2025
After a short rest, we go into a new room and find two more flaming skeletons, two hellhounds, and a witch. Ingvild casts a spell that incapacitates one skeleton and a hellhound.

The witch, after taking damage, disappears; at one point we manage to kill off a hellhound and in a last desperate attempt to kill a skeleton, Ayloc slams the door on Ingvild so that he could kill it off, the explosion shaking the door, but protecting Ingvild who was in the blast radius.

The witch reappears, but not for long, as we finish off the remaining hellhound before she threatens us with haunting us in our dreams and disappears again. We blow the last, incapacitated skeleton up from a distance.

We clean up the place, and a spirit shows up from the statue in the room. Garin Oakwind, former Captain of [...] thanks us for helping clean up the space; the hag had shown up a week or two earlier.

He tells us that a wand, a pearl, and a ring are missing (taken by the[night] hag). We can keep the items if we find them.

He gives us a leaf shaped jewelry that allows us to jump to the Fey Wilds if we want. He says we may be able to find help hunting down the witch/hag there.
August 13, 2025
In a long hallway that ended with some stairs and a 20+ ft pit, we were attacked by an earth elemental who crawled out of a sarcophagus next to said pit. Luckily, we managed to maneuver so that we could push it into the pit instead of us being pushed in by it, because….

…once we defeated the elemental, we went down the stairs to where the pit opened up only to find four flaming skeletons and a flaming skull, the latter of which did a lot of damage to us with an opening salvo of a fireball. Invigild used her tremor sense to forewarn us of something in the dark; the combat was fierce, and Ingvild cast Protection from Evil on Andurin and between that and Andurin’s shield defense on Sachan, they kept the skeletons at bay with nary a scratch, only to discover that…

… they explode when killed. While Andurin and Sachan hold them at a standstill, the rest of us pick at them or the flaming skull (who can cast magic missile and flame ray, we learn). Ayloc eventually misty stepped into close range with the flaming skull to finish it off, at great peril to himself considering he jumped into an area we hadn’t gotten a good look at.

We finish the skull off, then the remainder of the skeletons; Andurin managing to ward off some of the damage of the explosions by ducking behind his shield and Ayloc and Sachan (and the rest of us) standing off out of range.

After we defeat the flaming quintuplet, Rüya recalls some esoteric knowledge that flaming skulls regenerate from their ashes; thankfully we can douse it in Holy Water to fully destroy it.

At this point, we are heavily wounded; Rüya is fully out of spells and hurt (as are Ingvild and Lysandra); Andurin and Sachan are bloodied, and Ayloc is pretty roughed up as well.

In slightly better news, Andurin notices that in the rubble of the elemental, there are two diamonds worth 100gp each.

[XP: 1444]
August 6, 2025
We are attacked by Shadow Demons initially. then later by Helmed Horrors and a Flesh Golem when we open a trapped door (a trap Sachan successfully bypassed). Ingvild’s vast and easy to recall knowledge came in handy with learning what was (or was not) effective against these creatures.

After we defeat these foes, few find a kindly spirit not capable of crossing over. She asks that we properly inter her. In return, we get a +1 longbow and a +1 elven chain shirt (which anyone can wear).

We also find a Scroll of Gentle Repose and a small empty pouch of high quality embroidered with plants and herbs (Heward’s Handy Spice Pouch).

[XP: 1680]
July 30, 2025
Ghosts, who were once part of Rinuth’s cult (and still are, I suppose), come to us in the night and ask us to help them clean out their mausoleum area. Of course, we agree. Luckily, they know the nature of the foul occupants—Black Puddings—so we get info on how to kill them; in particular, don’t use acid, cold, lightning, or slashing.

We destroy the terrible creatures with aplomb, using paired Moonbeams from Andurin and Rüya for consistent spread damage and single high damage shots from Ingvild and Lysandra all the while staying out of range of their pseudopods. All in all, an effective use of magic.

[XP: 1100]
July 23, 2025
As we approach the stones, we see a group of hobgoblins and bugbears; we witness a hobgoblin in platemail is teleported away by the stones.

Hidden, we ambush the remainder of the group (a captain and his warriors, all riding worgs), but are in turn ambushed by bugbear stalkers with a nasty penchant for grabbing and also taking tremendous amounts of damage.

Both Andurin and Ayloc (he was the first to be sneaked upon by the stalkers) were knocked out and Sachan had to save Ayloc with a potion. Rüya had to use Healing Word a couple of times (and they also had to use their own healing abilities). In the end, Fireball, Shatter, and a lot of Call Lightning kept the damage spread around while the warriors kept the enemies engaged—sadly, Ayloc was unlucky with his attacks, and missed many of his attempts.

It was the bugbear’s reach that obviated much of our strengths such as Sachan's use of her sneak attack. Andurin could not easily switch opponents, as they surrounded him but at a distance (and at one point a stalker managed to grab him and pull him off his horse and away from the combat). No one was very effective; Call Lightning, for all the damage it can do, was also weakened by the hobgoblins’ tactics of staying well apart from each other, often only allowing her to hit one target at a time.

Yet, we survived, blessed by our gods, our stars, a little bit of luck, and a good dose of healing magic.

[XP: 1100. Treasure to be handed out later]
July 16, 2025
Lysandra: The stones were created by the Court of ???, a noble family, who were diplomats between the human kingdoms and the fey, as a method of travel between their two worlds; going to the Fey Wild would require the ritual during a specific time, but terrestrial travel can happen anytime.

We decide to head for the travel stones and Lysandra joins us. Varen discovers us leaving the town and confronts Andurin, Lysandara, and Ayloc, which leads to a confrontation (Sachan and Rüya were hiding and Ingvild was invisible). We defeated them and buried the bodies (and much of their mundane equipment) and continued our journey.
July 9, 2025
Location: Broken Antler Tavern

Conversation with Lysandra — learning about the Verdant Mirror which seems to have local power over elemental forces as well as scrying.

While in the bar, Sachan notices a gnome looking over at us; she goes to talk at that table when we’re attacked by “fey” assassins who turn out to be goblins. We capture one who says “The Regent [Vaelith] will have his prize.”

Lysandra tells us once we get to the mirror, we need to find something living in the mirror in order to return back more quickly.

We’re informed about this from Mirra Copperhorn (Innkeeper of the Broken Antler Tavern) who was listening in on our conversation: ​"There’s a massive stone circle deep in the Wilds [about two days away] that seems ordinary, but during the Veiling Harmony, it becomes a gateway to the Feywild,” as understood by

Conveniently, Audurin received, after we cleansed the water cavern, a leaf that potentially leads to the Feywild and/or the Verdant Mirror.
July 2, 2025
The remainder of the trip to Thornwatch is uneventful; we arrive at the outpost in the evening.

Talia Thistlemere, Warden of the Outpost meets with us. The Stratus Vanguard (led by Vaeren Cloudbrand) is causing trouble, followers of Karas. The Council of Elders rules the town democratically, but haven’t stood up to them yet.

We enter the town of Thronwatch relatively anonymously, disguised as part of the scouts who normally go back and forth to town. We met up with Lysandra at the Broken Antler Tavern.
June 25, 2025
Attacked by Ankhegs; next night, approached by a (wereboar) bounty hunter on a giant boar with two giant boar companions who wants 10gp for each of us. His name was Brahn of the Iron Snout.

850xp each
June 18, 2025
We kill off the goblins quickly. So much for an exciting cliffhanger.










We get about to cleansing the temple. Lysandra gave us a note to follow:


Andurin receives a vision telling us of the location of the mirror, which is on a glacier. He also manifests a leaf which floats down from nowhere, which we figure out is a non-terrestrial leaf from the Fey Wild.



As we exit the temple, we are met by Virvienne, Ayloc’s patron’s messenger. She tells us that the attack on Lysandra in Thornwatch and the goblins were sent by a guy named Vaelith, a Fae. He seeks to control the Verdant Mirror so he can complete his coup of the Faewild.

We decide to head back to Thornwatch so we can gather cold weather gear and check upon Lysandra.

440XP for today.
June 10, 2025
More Bullywugs, Giant Frogs, a Giant Toad attacked us. They split up to flank us, but Rüya cast a Spike Growth to protect our backside which proved to be very useful.

230XP received.

We search around the temple area and look at a bowl on the shrine to find it full of murky, disgusting water. Andurin figures we need to replace the water and do a worship ceremony, giving some offerings. Nearby, another room holds Bullywug treasure [see spreadsheet].

While preparing the temple to be sanctified, Bill’s alarm goes off and we find the Goblins who we had evaded before managed to track us.

  CLIFFHANGER!
June 4, 2025
Continuing from May 28th:
We move into a room not filled with water and are attacked by vines, which are easy enough to defeat.
The Bog Sage leader casts Vitrolic Sphere which killed Wally and Búho in a bath of acid.
Sachan finds a staff of some sort [Staff of Flowers, 10 charges], and Rüya some rare plants.
We enter a much larger room with a deeper pool of water, where we find a giant crocodile; we managed to avoid any combat.
Instead, we find a camp of bullywugs and we speak with their leader, where we figure out they worship a corrupted being. We kill 4 warriors, a berserker, a giant toad, and the leader, the “Bog Sage.” We were particularly well skilled and coordinated this combat [ed: 4 natural 20s in a row!]

680XP received.
May 28, 2025
Continuing Temple Crawl:
Rüya falls into the stream as we try to cross to visit the dryad. Annoyed. 🙄
Turns out, from Ingvild’s deduction, the Dryad was suspicious: She’s a hag! (we discover after we confront her and then enter combat with it).
Treasure:
Two scrolls (Ingvild):
Comprehend Languages
False Life
Sardonix Gem (50gp) (Andurin)
120gp in coin
We find in one room a Water Weird who turned out to be friendly (the “Dryad” wanted us to defeat it so she could increase her space(?)) that gave us a gem (Tigereye Gem, 30gp, Andurin)
Andurin falls into the stream as we try to cross back.
We look around more and then are attacked by a Shambling Mound.
Treasure
150gp worth of rare herbs (Rüya)

May 21, 2025
Continuing Temple Crawl:
We go down the stairs into an unnatural light on the stairs and vestibule; frogs and kois around a pond.
Another room. Attacked by giant constrictor from bottom of large pool;
Treasure
find a plain gold bracelet (non-magical, 25gp) at the bottom of the pool.
New room, attacked by a horde of vines and needle plants. A dryad shows up after combat to tell us of the corruption of the flora and fauna. She tells us the source of corruption is in a room just north of us, across the flowing stream.
We took a long rest, after leveling up to level 4 with +400XP.
Treasure:
We found 25gp worth of rare herbs in the room we slept in (Rüya)
May 14, 2025
During our journey, Sachan comes upon a group of goblins; we managed to evade them before encountering another group, whom we also evade. Eventually, Andurin’s intuition starts to guide us, leading us to a small nature temple of Rinuth. Andurin steps in the old, dusty circle at the center of the courtyard, revealing this text:

"The guardians rise in defense of the sanctuary, but only the voice of nature may still their wrath. Four marks shall appear upon the sacred elements—Earth, Stone, Tree, and Water. To sever the enchantment, seek each symbol where it rests and heed this truth:
Touch the mark, speak its name, and grant it its title. Only then shall the wild spirits know peace once more."

We are attacked by a displacer beast, not a normal guardian for a Rinuth temple, because the magic has been corrupted. During the combat, symbols start to appear and some of us run to fulfill the creed above by quoting from another saying:


"Rinuth, guardian of the wild, By earth, the cradle of life, By stone, the steadfast foundation, By tree, the wisdom of ages, By water, the ever-moving spirit—Let harmony mend what is broken, Let nature breathe without wrath, Let your blessing restore the balance, And peace return to your sacred ground."

We defeat the beast, clear the remaining symbols, and head down an opening that appears shortly after our battle.
May 7, 2025
Encounter an encampment with a mimic and a troll limb (just the limb). Someone else was here and had been attacked recently. We kill the attackers with little trouble this time.

At the camp we find:

3 short bows [returned 1 to Shadowstride]
3 quivers with 20 arrows each [returned 1 to Shadowstride]
3 explorer packs [returned 1 to Shadowstrider]
A small box with:
a potion of healing [Ingvild]
a perfume bottle [magic – Perfume of Bewitching; to Ayloc]
an orb (to a spell casting focus) [magic – Orb of Direction; to Ingvild]
leather strap/necklace with four beads [magic – beads of nourishment; returned to Shadowstride]

We followed the tracks of what we assume was the previous campers being dragged away, probably by a troll. We find the troll’s lair and manage to get it to fall asleep and then douse in oil, set alight, and kill quickly (thankfully). We only managed to rescue one person (Vaelin "Shadowstride" Thorn) out of the three campers, a scout from the village. We bury the bodies. As a reward, we get a +1 shortsword [given to Sachan]. We give Shadowstride his short bow, quiver, arrows, and explorer packs, plus let him keep the money of his comrades. He tells us what the magic items do (except for the perfume bottle). We give him the beads for his return to Thornwatch.

We get 410xp for all of our attack efforts.

April 30, 2025
We acquired 375XP for repelling the rat attack. Found various coins on the wererats. The herbalist Griselda Hearthvale tells us of the Rotfang cult, an evil group who harass the village and she’s sure that they’re trying to spread their disease. The villagers recognize the bodies of the three killed wererats as being hooligans around the village [Nxythara is the locally known goddess (neutral) of shapeshifting].

We chat with Lysandra who tells us of the Verdant Mirror, mentioned in her book, an item possibly located in an ancient temple to Renuth (Andurin’s patron), in a section of the Wilds called the Emerald Veil. She’ll need a few days to continue some research.

We take the time to shop and do our own research on the Wilds. We figure out that Rogie is cursed and get that removed. We hear many rumors, in particular for Rüya:

"There’s a hidden grove where weapons left under moonlight absorb the magic of the stars, making them stronger." – Oren "Half-Luck" Tallowroot

We get a map from the local rangers and Lysandra gives us the text of an incantation for revealing the mirror (or showing us its location).

We were attacked by stirges while camping our first night out. Rüya was badly hurt, to the point of death, but we managed to survive the night.

April 23, 2025
Bella joined the game as Ingvild Lionforge.

Some of us (Andurin, Ayloc, and Rüya) are given various dreams and premonitions while camping for the night. It’s noted by Rüya that the Sisters (the two moons) are in alignment, where the larger moon (Solara) eclipses the smaller (Lunara). This is called the Vieling Harmony. The dreams seem to indicate that there is danger in the Wilds, so we start to travel there.

We come to Thornwatch, a town surrounded by brambles and it is the boundary into the Wilds. We find a place to stay and then go shopping.

There, we meet Lysandra, who eagerly asks us if we’re going into the Wilds. Ingvild joins us, as she overheard our speaking with Lysandra about the more nerdy-arcane parts of the book and as a wizard, was interested in hearing more. Before we make way, we’re attacked by Giant Rats and Wererats in the market who attack the general public. One wererat steals Lysandra’s book, which we barely manage to kill before it runs away with it.

April 16, 2025
We moved further down the cave system to defeat some ghouls, a ghast, and a wight
We found a small lock box full of:

10 platinum
50 gold
A hand fan with a light floral pattern on it, which creates a huge blast of wind if it is waved hard enough (https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619137-gust-of-wind (Rüya)

April 9, 2025
Joe joined the game as Rogie. Killed some zombies. Then immediately after, were attacked by a ghast, two ghouls and a handful of “creeping claws.” We end up finding a chest full of:

640 copper
530 silver
240 electrum
103 gold
7 platinum

We also raided an altar of evil gods. We found:
 A ruby gem from the pommel of  a sword of a statue: https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/9228991-ruby-of-the-war-mage (Andurin)
 A dancing broom from an altar of evil gods: https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/9228354-baba-yagas-dancing-broom (Ayloc)



We also advanced to 3rd level.
April 2, 2025
Attacked by large and giant spiders and centipedes on the last rest. Went to investigate where they came from, as they were scared into attacking us by an earthquake. Found a ravine with a stream below where we discovered a cave that had stairs leading up.
March 26, 2025
Fought a bar fight in Laughing Griffin Inn against a bunch of Karas worshippers to rescue Tahlia Dawnseer worshiper of Bellona. Taking on a caravan job from Master Darius Goldspar.
Captain of the Guard: Rorek Flintaxe (Dwarf)
